docs: move webhook section from README to docs (#3314)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/docs/components/lifecycle-operator/webhook.md

---
comments: true
---

# Admission Webhooks

Keptn uses
[Admission Webhooks](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#what-are-admission-webhooks)
to mutate resources.
To enable the webhook (and therefore Keptn Lifecycle Management)
for a certain namespace, the namespace must be annotated:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: podtato-kubectl
  annotations:
    keptn.sh/lifecycle-toolkit: "enabled"  # this line tells the webhook to handle the namespace
```

The mutating webhook only modifies specifically annotated resources in the annotated namespace.
When the webhook receives a request for a new pod,
it looks for the workload annotations:

```yaml
keptn.sh/workload: "some-workload-name"
```

> 

Reviewer: The entire bit from her down is hinting at all the things the webhook does but it kinda misses a clear order, list of them... I got lost in the text and the part about auto gen of the app and version was also not superclear... 

maybe we can add a list of things it does? Reordering the bit after to match more the logic?

The mutation either replaces the scheduler
with the Keptn Scheduler, or adds the
[Scheduling Gate](https://keptn.sh/stable/docs/components/scheduling/#keptn-scheduling-gates-for-k8s-127-and-above).
The webhook then creates a workload and app resource for each annotated resource.

> You can also specify a custom app definition with the annotation:

Reviewer: this sentence may be confusing now that app is autogenerated.. maybe we could rephrase it

Author: maybe completely remove it?

Reviewer: yes let's remove it it does not make sense here

---
comments: true
---

# Keptn Webhooks

Keptn uses

> [Admission Webhooks](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#what-are-admission-webhooks)

Reviewer 2: shouldn't it be mutating wehbooks? i don't think we have admission webhooks

Author: admission webhook can be either validating or mutating webhook, so I guess it's ok here..

Reviewer 2: wow, TIL! 😄

to mutate resources.
To enable the webhook (and therefore Keptn Lifecycle Management)

> for a certain namespace, the namespace needs to be annotated:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
for a certain namespace, the namespace must be annotated:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: podtato-kubectl
  annotations:
    keptn.sh/lifecycle-toolkit: "enabled"  # this line tells the webhook to handle the namespace
```

The mutating webhook only modifies specifically annotated resources in the annotated namespace.
When the webhook receives a request for a new pod,
it looks for the workload annotations:

```yaml
keptn.sh/workload: "some-workload-name"
```

> The mutation consists in changing the scheduler used for the deployment

Reviewer 3: This syntax is problematic.  Maybe "The mutation either replaces the scheduler... with the Keptn Scheduler or adds..."

with the Keptn Scheduler, or adding the
[Scheduling Gate](https://keptn.sh/stable/docs/components/scheduling/#keptn-scheduling-gates-for-k8s-127-and-above).

> The webhook then creates a workload and app resource per annotated resource.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The webhook then creates a workload and app resource for each annotated resource.
```

You can also specify a custom app definition with the annotation:

```yaml
keptn.sh/app: "your-app-name"
```

In this case the webhook does not generate an app,

> but it expects that the user will provide one.

Reviewer 3: Is this right?  I thought  this annotation is what triggers auto app discovery

```

The mutating webhook only modifies specifically annotated resources in the annotated namespace.

> When the webhook receives a request for a new pod, if first either replaces the scheduler

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the webhook receives a request for a new pod, it first either replaces the scheduler
```

with the Keptn Scheduler, or adds the
[Scheduling Gate](https://keptn.sh/stable/docs/components/scheduling/#keptn-scheduling-gates-for-k8s-127-and-above).

In the next step it looks for the workload annotations:

```yaml
keptn.sh/workload: "some-workload-name"
keptn.sh/version: "some-workload-version"
```

> If the `keptn.sh/version` annotation is missing, webhook computes a version string,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `keptn.sh/version` annotation is missing, the webhook computes a version string,
```

using a hash function that takes certain properties of the pod as parameters
(e.g. the images of its containers).
Next, it looks for an existing instance of a `KeptnWorkload`
for the specified workload name:

- If it finds the `KeptnWorkload`,
  it updates its version according to the previously computed version string.
  In addition, it includes a reference to the ReplicaSet UID of the pod
  (i.e. the Pods owner).
- If it does not find a workload instance,
  it creates one containing the previously computed version string.

Afterwards the webhook looks for the application annotation:

```yaml
keptn.sh/app: "your-app-name"
```

> The webhook searches for `KeptnAppCreationRequest` resource with the name stored in the `keptn.sh/app`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The webhook searches for the `KeptnAppCreationRequest` resource with the name stored in the `keptn.sh/app`
```

annotations.

> If it does not find it, it creates it and the automatic creation of `KeptnApp` is afterwards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If it doesn't find it, it creates it and the automatic creation of the `KeptnApp` is afterwards
```

handled by the `KeptnAppCreationRequest Controller`.

> The `keptn.sh/app` annotation is not mandatory for a single-service applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `keptn.sh/app` annotation is not mandatory for single-service applications.
```

> If you have a multi-service application, you need to add it to all workloads

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a multi-service application, you must add it to all workloads
```

to define which workloads belong to the application.

> The Pod can contain also information about the definition of pre or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Pod can also contain information about the definition of pre or
```
